Jafari is a Communications and advocacy
coordinator for the occupied Palestinian
territory at action a and she's joining
us from Bethlehem and the occupied West
Bank thanks very much indeed for being
with us uh tell us what your teams on
the ground in Gaza are telling you about
the conditions there after this
appalling weather that we've been seeing
there H thanks for having me H the
winter accelerates and increasing the
suffering of gazan people in in Gaza
this
winter is an additional suffering for
the Palestinians in Gaza ER in addition
to their suffering from bombing from
starvation from the lack of adequate
humanitarian aid from uh the
displacement ER winter this year is not
a welcom gust for many
Palestinians in Gaza as they um millions
of them more than uh
1,300,000 people are now in the open ER
with
a weak and uh uh un weak ttin they more
than 20 persons live in one tent ER
which is of nylon that couldn't protect
them from this severe stormy and rainy
weather people are Ed with water inside
their tent in ra and any other parts of
Gaza after the huge
displacement for many residents who were
displaced from North and from the middle
areas of Gaza and uh headed to ra for
seeking shelter and for seeking safety
while there's no safe places or Zone
safe zones in Gaza the when they live
without warm or winter item
when they left their homes when they
were displaced they they left with warm
and with sumary cloths as we know the
the weather in during October and
November in Palestine
is is is hot and is not cold so they LIF
only with the with Summer H cloths and
they do not have the time and not have
uh the priority to take their belong
games there were there were only
priority their top priority at at that
time to H fled and to escape from
pumping and to H go to other places so
and under the lack of winter items in
Gaza children are without warming
clothes women are without warming
clothes and sometimes they cannot find
even secondhand clothes to buy from the
local uh markets due to the Limit
humanitarian items that allowed Gaza and
due to the prevention of commercial
items to inter Gaza so let me forgive me
for interrupting you but you I wanted to
ask you about this this issue of trying
to get Aid to the people who are clearly
desperately in need of it particularly
as the temperatures are dropping and the
the the weather is getting worse we have
been reporting that there has been a
limited amount of Aid that has been
getting into the the Gaza Strip are you
your teams able to give that to the
people to who who need it and how is it
possible to get clothing to people who
as you say don't have any they're only
there in summer clothes and they've lost
many of their winter clothes as their
homes have been
bombed ER we tried to respond to Winter
needs of the people during November and
the beginning of December but our
response was limited to the availability
of winter items in the local market in
Gaza you know the humanitarian AIDs that
are allowed to Gaza does not include
some of some of it winter
items most of of it are H food and water
and some medical supplies uh so we try
to respond with the with the available
capacities as with the available items
in h in in Gaza we try to provide some
warm clothes for women for children and
some uh blankets and some mattresses and
uh some other items but again we are
pound we are restricted with the
availability of those items in Gaza Ram
Jafari we appreciate you being with us
on Al thank you very much indeed for
your
time thank you